
   LOIS LINQUIST, ETC., PETITIONER V. OTIS R. BOWEN, SECRETARY, HEALTH
AND HUMAN SERVICES, ET AL.

   No. 88-173

   In the Supreme Court of the United States

   October Term, 1988

   On Petition for a Writ of Certiorari to the United States Court of
Appeals for the Eighth Circuit

   Memorandum for the Respondents in Opposition

   Petitioner, who prevailed against the Secretary of Health and Human
Services and the Railroad Retirement Board in a class action, seeks an
award of attorney's fees.  She argues first that the suit created a
"common benefit," so that an award of attorney's fees is proper under
28 U.S.C. 2412(b) on a common law theory.  Alternatively, she seeks
fees under 28 U.S.C. 2412(d), under which she must establish that the
government's position is not "substantially justified," and asks this
Court to vacate and remand to the court of appeals for reconsideration
in light of this Court's decision in Pierce v. Underwood, No. 86-1512
(June 27, 1988).

   1. a. The underlying case for which petitioner seeks attorney's
fees was a nationwide class action brought on behalf of persons who
receive both social security benefits and railroad retirement benefits
and in addition earn income from outside sources.  Separate provisions
of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 403(b) and (f)) and the Railroad
Retirement Act (45 U.S.C. 231(g)(2)) require an offset against an
individual's benefits of 50 cents for each dollar of earned income in
excess of an exempt amount.  Petitioner contended that persons who
receive both social security retirement benefits and railroad
retirement survivors' benefits may have their benefits reduced by only
one 50% offset, rather than two.  The district court agreed with
petitioner and enjoined the use of a double offset (Pet. App.
17a-57a).

   The court of appeals stayed this order pending appeal, over
petitioner's vigorous opposition (see Pet. App. 58a).  It then
affirmed the district court (813 F.2d 884;  Pet. App. 59a-71a).  The
court acknowledged that Congress did not consider the specific
question at issue (id. at 69a).  It nevertheless concluded that the
1972 amendments to the Social Security Act demonstrated an "overriding
congressional intent" not to discourage retirees from continuing to
work, and that this purpose would be frustrated by applying two
offsets (id. at 71a).

   b. Petitioner then filed an application in the court of appeals for
an award of attorney's fees for the appeal.  /1/ She presented two
alternate theories to justify such an award:  first, that by
prevailing in a class action she had created a "common benefit" and
thus was entitled to an award of fees under 28 U.S.C. 2412(b), which
waives the government's sovereign immunity to allow an award of
attorney's fees "to the same extent that any other party would be
liable under the common law * * *." Alternatively, she sought fees
under 28 U.S.C. 2412(d), under which the United States is liable for
attorney's fees to a prevailing party in a civil action in which its
position was not "substantially justified" (28 U.S.C. 2412(d)(1)(A)).
/2/ In its initial order (Pet. App. 72a-73a), the court of appeals
accepted petitioner's common benefit theory and thus did not reach her
subsection (d) claim.  It awarded $22,362.50 in attorney's fees for
the appeal, most of it at a rate of $125 an hour (Pet. App. 73a).

   On rehearing, the court of appeals vacated its earlier fee award
and denied the application for fees (Pet. App. 1a-16a).  The court
first rejected the claim under Section 2412(d), because the government
was substantially justified;  it "found the issue on the merits to be
a close one" (Pet. App. 3a-4a).  The court then rejected petitioner's
"common benefit" theory, explaining that "the common law basis of the
common benefit theory envisioned a fee-shifting to the unnamed
beneficiaries of the litigation" (id. at 8a).  Accordingly, the court
explained, this theory does not apply when, as here, the government
(and thus the taxpayers) would bear the cost, rather than just the
benefitted class (id. at 9a-10a).

   2. The court of appeals' rejection of petitioner's "common benefit"
theory was correct and does not conflict with any decision of this
Court or of any court of appeals.  Further review of the question by
this Court is therefore unwarranted.  Nor is the decision of the court
of appeals on the alternative theory under Section 2412(d) contrary to
this Court's subsequent decision in Underwood.  A remand of the case
in light of Underwood is therefore also unwarranted.

   The underlying theory behind common benefit fee awards, as well as
common fund awards (from which the common benefit theory is derived)
is that such awards are proper only when "there (is) reason for
confidence that the costs could indeed be shifted with some exactitude
to those benefitting" from the litigation.  Alyeska Pipeline Co. v.
Wilderness Society, 421 U.S. 240, 265 n.39 (1975).  This objective is
met directly when the award is under a common fund theory, where an
attorney's fee may be deducted from the monetary recovery that will be
paid by the defendant to the members of the victorious class.  /3/ The
common benefit theory is available where, although there is no
specific fund that has been awarded to the plaintiffs, having the
defendant pay the fee award will still result in shifting the cost of
the fee to the benefitted parties, because all of the owners or
members or beneficiaries of the defendant will equally benefit from
the outcome of the case.  For example, in a shareholders' suit, where
the expenses of plaintiff's lawsuit have been incurred for the benefit
of the corporation and the other shareholders, a fee award is proper
because "(t)o allow the (other shareholders) to obtain full benefit
from the plaintiff's efforts without contributing equally to the
litigation expenses would be to enrich the others unjustly at the
plaintiff's expense." Mills v. Electric Auto-Lite Co., 396 U.S. 375,
392 (1970).  Similarly, litigation brought by a member of a union
against the union itself "necessarily render(s) a substantial service
to his union as an institution and to all of its members" by
"dispel(ling) the 'chill' cast upon the rights of others." Hall v.
Cole, 412 U.S. 1, 7, 8 (1973).  As in the case of the shareholder
suit, such an award merely shifts the costs of the litigation to those
who benefit from it (id. at 9).

   The courts of appeals have uniformly rejected fee requests based on
the common benefit theory where it cannot be said that the people who
benefit from the litigation are ultimately paying the fee.  For
example, in Grace v. Burger, 763 F.2d 457 (D.C. Cir. 1985), plaintiff
had successfully challenged a statute restricting the right to
demonstrate on the grounds of the Supreme Court.  The D.C. Circuit
denied fees on a common benefit theory, reasoning that "(a)n award of
fees here would not compel the beneficiaries to compensate the winning
litigant who acted as their representative, but would assess costs
against the unrelated losing party" (id. at 460).  See also Murphy v.
International Union of Operating Engineers, 774 F.2d 114, 127 (6th
Cir. 1985);  Holbrook v. Pitt, 748 F.2d 1168, 1174-1175 (7th Cir.
1984);  Shimman v. International Union of Operating Engineers, 744
F.2d 1226, 1234-1236 (6th Cir. 1984) (en banc);  Wilderness Society v.
Morton, 495 F.2d 1026, 1029 (D.C. Cir. 1974) (en banc), aff'd sub nom.
Alyeska Pipeline Co. v. Wilderness Society, 421 U.S. at 245 & n.14,
259-260.  Most directly on point is Jordan v. Heckler, 744 F.2d 1397,
1400-1401 (10th Cir. 1984), which, like the present case, involved a
claim for attorney fees for the successful litigation of a class
action challenging the agency's interpretation of a provision of the
Social Security Act.  The court noted that a common benefit award was
not proper because it would not spread the cost proportionately among
the beneficiaries of the litigation, but rather was "simply an award
against the Government or all persons who pay Social Security taxes"
(744 F.2d at 1400).  Similarly here, the persons who benefitted from
this litigation were those from whom the government had collected two
offsets.  A fee award against the agencies, however, would be paid,
not just by those benefitted, but by all taxpayers.  A fee award here
would thus greatly expand the common law theory of common benefit.

   Petitioner appears to acknowledge that the common law concept of
common benefit fee awards does not apply to this case.  /4/ Instead,
she candidly calls on this Court to expand the common benefit theory
to cover this case (Pet. 10).  She suggests that when Congress adopted
Section 2412(b), "in effect, it amended the common benefit theory in
this context" to allow such a new theory (Pet. 10).  This argument is
untenable.  Section 2412(b) does not expressly refer to the common
benefit theory;  it simply states that "(t)he United States shall be
liable for such fees and expenses to the same extent that any other
party would be liable under the common law * * *." Accordingly, the
statute cannot be read as mandating the application of the common
benefit theory against the United States, thereby expanding the scope
of liability under that theory beyond the circumstances recognized
under common law.  It simply applies existing theories "to the same
extent that" they apply to private parties.  The legislative history
confirms that the purpose of this section was that "the United States
should be held to the same standards in litigating as private parties"
and that "the Federal government and civil litigants (should be
placed) on a completely equal footing." H.R. Rep. 96-1418, 96th Cong.,
2d Sess. 9 (1980).  While it may be true that it will normally be
quite difficult to use a common benefit theory against the United
States, that result follows only because of the nature of litigation
against the United States.  If and when a case arises that does fit
within the common benefit theory as it applies to private parties, the
United States will be liable for fees.  /5/

   Indeed, under petitioner's interpretation of the statute, Section
2412(d) would lose much of its purpose, allowing litigants to use the
"common benefit" analysis to evade the requirement that a fee award be
made only when the government's position is not substantially
justified, whenever the litigation can be said to have resulted in
some public benefit.  Thus, if petitioner is to obtain attorney's fees
here, she must meet the standards of Section 2412(d).

   3. Petitioner alternatively asks this Court to vacate the court of
appeals' refusal to make a fee award under Section 2412(d) and to
remand for reconsideration in light of Underwood.  Petitioner contends
that the court of appeals determined that the government's position
was substantially justified on the basis of two objective factors that
this Court rejected in Underwood (Pet. 13-14).  But petitioner
misreads Underwood.  In that case, the Court simply found that the
objective factors, while relevant, were not conclusive, and were an
insufficient basis on which to overturn the determination of the court
entrusted with the responsibility for making the fee decision that the
government's position was not substantially justified (slip op.
14-16).  The court of appeals here relied on factors similar to those
in Underwood -- the grant of a stay and the fact that the decision on
the merits was in conflict with a decision of the D.C. Circuit in an
earlier case.  But Underwood recognized that those factors are
relevant, though not conclusive, and the court of appeals here cited
them simply as support for the ultimate conclusion that "we found the
issue on the merits to be a close one" (Pet. App. 4a).  It is also
significant that in this case the court of appeals was itself the
court entrusted with the responsibility for determining, in the first
instance, whether a fee award was appropriate for representation in
that court, and thus it was not reviewing a lower court decision
regarding substantial justification.  In that context, it was entirely
proper for it to consider factors the Court in Underwood recognized as
relevant, and to give them such weight as the court considered
appropriate in the circumstances.

   It is therefore respectfully submitted that the petition for a writ
of certiorari should be denied.

   CHARLES FRIED

      Solicitor General

   SEPTEMBER 1988

   /1/ Petitioner's parallel application in the district court for
attorney's fees for work in that court remains pending.

   /2/ Unlike fee awards under subsection (b), fee awards under this
subsection are subject to a cap of $75 an hour, adjustable for "an
increase in the cost of living or a special factor" (28 U.S.C.
2412(d)(2)(A)).  See Underwood, slip op. 17-20.

   /3/ The back benefits awarded to class members in this case created
a fund out of which a common fund award might possibly have been paid,
but petitioner waived any recovery of fees out of that fund (Pet. App.
7a n.5).

   /4/ Petitioner objects to the court of appeals' conclusion "that
the common benefit theory (must) be applied exactly as it had been
developed in the common law" (Pet. 7), and concedes that while the
common law theory requires that the defendant pay the fee only if it
is "a proxy for * * * a benefitted class of recipients," the United
States "will never be" such a proxy (Pet. 9).

   /5/ Petitioner also argues that her position is supported by 28
U.S.C. 2412(c)(2).  But that section, like Section 2412(b), makes no
mention of the common benefit theory.  Section 2412(c)(2) merely
allocates the responsibility to pay a fee award between the Treasury
and the individual agencies, if and when an award is properly assessed
under other sections of the statute.  (For example, it requires the
agency to pay rather than the Treasury if the basis of the award is
bad faith.) In any event, Congress was careful to provide in Section
2412(b) that a fee award can be made only if a private party would
have been liable.  Congress would scarcely have made a significant
substantive addition to the explicit coverage of Section 2412(b) in a
statutory provision dealing with allocations.
