November 1996


          Ethics Training: Using Officers' Dilemmas

                 By Joycelyn M. Pollock, Ph.D. 
                 and Ronald F. Becker, J.D.

__________

Officers' own dilemmas can provide a strong basis for discussing
a broad range of ethical issues.
__________

Dr. Pollock chairs the Department of Criminal Justice at
Southwest Texas State University in San Marcos. 
Mr. Becker is a professor of criminal justice at Southwest Texas
State University. 
__________

In recent years, ethics training has become a prominent component
of police academy and in-service instruction curricula. Yet,
despite the heightened interest in such training, ethics remains
a difficult subject to teach.

By its nature, the practice of ethical behavior defies
universally accepted standards. Aside from exposing officers to
the different philosophical frameworks--including, among others,
religious ethics, natural law, ethical formalism, utilitarianism,
and the ethics of care--instructors generally focus on practical
exercises to reinforce desired behavior.

Usually, the content of such courses consists of adopting one
philosophical framework and discussing hypothetical or researched
ethical dilemmas within that framework.1 To be sure, examples of  
ethical dilemmas for criminal justice students and practitioners
can be gathered from newspapers, books in the field, and journal
articles. These sources identify such irksome issues as
gratuities, corruption, bribery, whistle-blowing and loyalty,
undercover tactics, use of deception, discretion, sex on duty and
other misconduct, deadly force, and brutality.

However, it would be fundamentally wrong to assume that this list
necessarily represents the most problematic ethical issues facing
law enforcement officers. Officers themselves may not necessarily
perceive these as the most troublesome. Also, although many
ethical issues involve officer deviance, other issues do not
involve misconduct. That is, in some situations, no decision that
the officer could make would be clearly wrong.

Despite the growing rhetoric concerning police ethics, few
attempts have been made to determine what ethical concerns the
officers themselves identify. This article focuses on a training
method that uses officers' dilemmas as a teaching tool.2 Each of
the authors has used this method to teach ethics to law
enforcement officers from all types of agencies_from large, urban
police departments to small, rural agencies. Regardless of class
composition, the teaching method serves as an effective way to
integrate realistic problems that officers encounter into a
formal discussion of ethical behavior.

ETHICS TRAINING MEETS THE REAL WORLD

The instructors employ ethical dilemmas submitted by class
participants as the basis for 50 percent of the course content.
The other 50 percent of the course involves discussing the
dilemmas within specific ethical frameworks.

To begin, the instructors define the term "ethical dilemma" as a
situation in which individuals:

ù  Do not know the right course of action
ù  Have difficulty doing what they consider to be right
ù  Find the wrong choice very tempting.

Then, after delivering several hours of introductory material on
ethics, ethical codes, morals, and value  systems but before
presenting any issue-based material, the instructors ask the
officers to write down an ethical dilemma that they have faced.
This structure ensures that the class discussion centers around
the officers' actual experiences, not on any general dilemma,
such as brutality or accepting gratuities.

Asking officers to give examples of ethical dilemmas is not  the
same as asking them what they believe is the most difficult  
ethical issue in policing. However, over the course of many class
sessions, a clear pattern of responses reveals issues that
officers consistently identify as problematic ethical situations.
Next, the instructors ask each officer to draft a one-sentence    
code of ethics. In essence, the students write down what they
consider to be the central elements to being a good police
officer. After collecting and reading these one-sentence codes to
the class, the instructors lead a discussion to analyze the
values expressed and identify those values cited most frequently.
Invariably, the officers identify five common elements: legality  
 (enforcing and upholding the law), service (protecting and
serving the public), honesty/integrity, loyalty, and some version
of the Golden Rule or respect for other persons. Officers mention
these elements in every class, although the relative rank or
emphasis given to each varies somewhat. It also is not surprising
that the elements officers view as important to a code of ethics
relate closely to the dilemmas they identify in class.

CATEGORIES OF DILEMMAS

For purposes of the class exercises, the instructors group the
dilemmas presented by officers into four general categories:
discretion (legality), duty (service), honesty, and loyalty. Of
these, officers most frequently cite discretion and loyalty. A
fifth category, gratuities, is a perennial concern among
administrators, and in recent years, has become a particularly
fractious issue between citizens and law enforcement. The
instructor then leads the class in discussing the ethical
dimensions of each category and analyzing the officers' dilemmas.

Discretion

Discretion can be defined as the power to make a choice.
Obviously, all ethical dilemmas involve making choices_for
example, whether to take a bribe. However, the situations
categorized in this discussion of discretion involve decisions in
which either of the two possible actions may be defined as right.
The specific purview of what is known as police discretion--whether to arrest, whether to ticket, what to do when faced with
an altercation--generally is not identified in ethical terms. In
some of these discretionary situations, however, officers reveal
in class that they either have felt uncomfortable about what the
law or departmental regulations required them to do or report
that they were sincerely confused as to the appropriate course of
action they should take. The question does not involve doing
something wrong, but rather finding the best solution to a
difficult problem.

Discussions based on dilemmas concerning the use of discretion
can examine which criteria may be considered ethical and which
have less ethical support. Because full enforcement is not an
option, police  always will have to use discretion in enforcing
the laws. Therefore, officers must at least recognize the   
ethical issues involved in employing that discretion.
The following examples submitted by officers involve discretion.
These examples represent the real-world dilemmas they have faced.

Dilemma: Dire Circumstances

A gas station attendant calls the police because of a disturbance
at a gas station. A neighborhood youth has been begging patrons
for money and washing their windows without being asked. The
youth lives with his grandmother, and they barely make ends meet.
The attendant wants the child arrested because he says the youth
harasses the customers.

In such situations, the offender often is driven by dire
circumstances; in this case, the youth's grandmother is extremely
poor, and he gives the money he earns to her. This puts the
officer in a struggle between reacting with compassion and
enforcing the law.

Dilemma: Strict Legality

An officer stops a woman with numerous outstanding traffic
warrants. The woman has her infant child with her. Should the
officer take the baby to juvenile and the woman to jail, make
arrangements for someone else to care for the baby, or just let
the offender go and tell her to take care of the warrants on her
own? She has no money and gives the officer no trouble.
This situation does not involve a demanding complainant; yet, the
officer believes that strict legality might not serve the ends of
justice, or at least, feels torn about enforcing the law. Many
such dilemmas involve women and/or families with children. Some
officers are very clear about the criteria they use to guide
their discretion; others are less sure about the ethical role of
the police.

Dilemma: No Clear Course

An officer responds to a home and is asked to find some type of
housing for an elderly parent because the family can no longer
provide care. The officer knows that the family uses the parent's
resources as their financial mainstay.

In this dilemma, no law or policy may be involved, but the
officer is perplexed as to how to resolve the situation. These
scenarios almost always involve family disputes in which a real
problem exists, but officers have trouble deciding on the
appropriate or ethical course of action.

Here, the officer's dilemma arises from a sincere desire to do
the right thing, while being unsure exactly what that course of
action should be. These types of dilemmas may be exacerbated by
the fact that community referral sources are often unavailable or
overtaxed.

Dilemma: Officer Wrongdoing

Working a side job at a local nightclub, an officer observes a
disturbance on the far side of the bar. Responding to the
problem, the officer discovers that the instigator is an
extremely intoxicated off-duty officer who refuses to follow
instructions. The other party involved claims that the officer
assaulted him. The complainant does not know his assailant is a
police officer.

Some discretionary dilemmas arise because of a personal or
professional relationship between the officer and the subject.
Typically, these types of dilemmas involve stopping a speeding
car and finding that the driver is a fellow officer or responding
to an altercation involving another officer or family member who
is probably at fault.

Duty

Duty involves two main types of dilemma. The first raises
questions about a police officer's obligation in a certain
situation. For example, with a domestic disturbance call, when
police officers determine that no crime has been committed, what
is their duty? Is there an obligation to try to resolve a
volatile situation before it erupts into a crime?
Likewise, some police officers believe they have a responsibility
to help poor and homeless people find shelter; others do not feel
bound by such an obligation. This type of discussion inevitably
brings out differences of opinion fundamental to how officers see
their role in the community. It is also an ethical issue.
The other type of duty-related dilemma is much more
straightforward. The officer knows that the job requires a
certain action but considers the action either inconvenient or a
waste of time, which makes the officer reluctant to perform it.

Dilemma: Copping Out

It is 10:30 p.m., and an officer returning to the station after
working the late shift notices a traffic jam. Nearing the
bottleneck, the officer observes an accident scene involving two
cars and a fixed object. Does the officer stop and provide
assistance or take the back way to the station?
Participants in discussions about duty issues quickly learn that
not all police officers view duty in the same way. To move beyond
a simple exchange of opinion, the instructor must apply an
ethical framework. Such an analysis helps the officers to see
that although some stands may be justifiable and legal, they may
have less ethical support than other definitions of duty.

Honesty

Under the general heading of honesty, officers submit dilemmas
involving self-enrichment, personal misdeeds, and various issues
relating to arrest situations. Bribery, a form of dishonesty,
also can be     discussed under this category of     dilemma.
During the training sessions, officers submitted very few
dilemmas dealing with bribery. This may be because they do not
view the temptation to accept bribery as a dilemma because they
seldom confront such opportunities. Or, perhaps the occupational
subculture in police departments is such that officers clearly
see taking a bribe as a serious violation; therefore, there is no
question about the proper response when faced with the
opportunity.

Dilemma: Self-enrichment

Two officers respond to the scene of a homicide involving a
suspected drug dealer who is lying dead on the floor. No one else
is present. During a search, the officers find $20,000 cash in
the suspect's pockets. One officer insists they are entitled to
keep the money, which should be split between them.
One useful teaching device to begin a discussion on
self-enrichment is to use a dilemma involving $20 and to ask what
the proper    procedure is. The instructor then continues to
increase the amount of money involved.

Many students believe keeping the $20 constitutes only a minor
breach (if any at all), but at some point, the amount of money
kept by the individual comes to be perceived as unethical. The
issue then becomes whether the amount in question or the action
itself should determine the ethical nature of the response.

Dilemma: Personal Misdeeds

While driving a police vehicle, an officer strikes a fixed
object. With no witnesses present and wishing to avoid
disciplinary action, the officer considers claiming that another
car collided with the police cruiser and then fled the scene.
In this dilemma, officers try to cover up their own wrongdoings
by lying or not coming forward when they commit minor misdeeds.
It appears from the number of dilemmas voiced by officers
concerning fender benders involving police cars that the police
parking lot is an insurer's nightmare.

Loyalty

In situations involving loyalty, officers must decide what to do
when faced with wrongdoings by other officers. Officers' dilemmas
in this area range from witnessing relatively minor wrongdoings,
e.g., misuses of overtime, to very serious breaches of public
trust, e.g., physical abuse of a suspect or the commission of a
crime.

What should officers do when they witness their partners use
excessive force to subdue a suspect? Even though they may not
condone the action, do they remain loyal to their partners or do
they blow the whistle on them?
Another set of loyalty issues involves observing, or suspecting,
that another officer has committed a crime.

Dilemma: Cover Me

An officer responds as a backup unit to an alarm at a jewelry
store. The first officer on the scene insists on writing the
report that lists the items taken. Several days later, the backup
officer sees the first responding officer wearing items from the
store that had been burglarized. The officer claims to have
"gotten the items on a good deal." Should the officer expose the
other's misdeed?

Because covering up for another officer has become more risky
with the possibility of individual civil liability, fewer
officers may be willing to do so. This justification, however,
differs from an ethical argument to come forward in the name of
integrity. In addition, a clear distinction exists between
reporting fellow officers out of an ethical responsibility and
coming forward in an official investigation in order to avoid
being disciplined.

Gratuities

It is hard to ignore the subject of gratuities in any class on
police ethics. Many articles appearing in law enforcement
publications and academic journals discuss the topic, and 
civilians often identify it as an enduring problem among police.
Still, many officers believe there is nothing wrong with
accepting gratuities.

One distinction that can be made in these dilemmas is between
true gratuities, something given to any officer as a matter of
policy, and gifts, something given to an individual in return for
a specific action. However, both gratuities and gifts can become
problematic issues for officers and agencies.

Dilemma: Declining a Gratuity

You are new to your beat. To avoid any suggestion of impropriety,
you prefer to pay for drinks and meals at area establishments.
You have learned from experience that people always expect
something in return. On this new beat, you stop by a convenience
store for a soda. The clerk refuses to accept payment. You
explain that you would prefer to pay. The clerk, now upset,      
accuses you of trying to be better than the other officers. He
threatens to tell your supervisor, who also stops by
occasionally. What do you do?

Dilemma: Being Offered a Gift

While on duty, you observe a vehicle broken down on the freeway.
You take the driver home because he only lives a short distance
away. It is early in the morning, and the man is very
appreciative. He wants to buy you breakfast to show his
appreciation so he offers you $5. Do you accept the money?
Discussions of the ethical questions surrounding gratuities can
be hampered by staunch defensiveness on the part of officers. It
is helpful to clearly discuss definitions--for example, the
difference between gratuities and gifts--and the reason why both
can be problematic issues for law enforcement.

Discussing gratuities in the same fashion used to discuss honesty
may be illustrative, beginning with a cup of coffee provided
gratuitously and gradually increasing the value and size of the
gratuity until the offer in question becomes perceived as
unethical. The discussion can be enhanced by polling the class
periodically as the size and value of the gratuity increase. The
ambiguity involved in determining an acceptable maximum level may
explain why not accepting gratuities at all reduces the
likelihood of ethical compromise.

APPLYING THE DILEMMAS 

The dilemmas submitted by the officers indicate that they view
many relatively mundane issues as problematic. Clearly, decisions
regarding whether to enforce a warrant or ticket, what to do in a
domestic disturbance, or whether to leave an assignment early are
not on the same level as police brutality or    use of deception.
Yet, if an ethics course for officers is to be relevant, it must
cover these common issues, as well as the more weighty but less
frequent ones. Of course, the individual instructor should
determine the approach taken to analyze the dilemmas.

Grouping Similar Dilemmas

After the officers submit their dilemmas, the instructor groups
the dilemmas so that similar ones are discussed together. One
immediate benefit of this grouping exercise is that officers
realize a common ground in their ethical concerns. Also, the
anonymity of the method ensures that some of the more vocal
participants cannot dismiss a particular issue as not being a
problem if at least one officer feels strongly enough about the
issue to offer this dilemma for the class to discuss.

Analyzing Ethical Issues

To lead the class in analyzing the dilemmas, the instructor must
first determine the level of disagreement among the students. The
instructor might ask, "What does the law require?" "What does
departmental policy require?" "What do personal ethics require?"
Classes often have heated discussions about legal definitions and
policy mandates. As a result, during this phase of the
discussion, some ethics classes come to resemble legal training
courses.

Class members may agree on the existence of an applicable law,
but disagree on departmental  policy. They may agree on law and
policy until the discussion turns to ethical analysis. If an
applicable  law or policy exists and if class members nonetheless
express an ethical concern about whether to  follow such a law or
policy, the issues of civil disobedience and duty become
relevant.

For example, can officers be considered ethical if they follow a
personal code of ethics that contradicts a departmental
directive? What if the departmental directive is not supported by
any ethical system? These are sensitive and important issues, and
officers should be allowed to express their concerns during the
discussion.

If no law applies to a given dilemma and if departmental policy   
is silent or ambiguous, then the discussion can be directed
quickly to an ethical analysis of possible solutions. The
instructor can direct these discussions in one of two ways.
First, the instructor can assign participants to groups and    
ask each group to determine a solution justified by a specific
ethical framework, e.g., utilitarianism, ethical formalism, or
the ethics of care.

In the second approach, the instructor asks the class to suggest
the best solution to the dilemma and then analyze that solution
using a specific ethical framework. For example, a class could be
asked to analyze the following dilemma:

An officer responds to a call from the security office of a
business that is holding a shoplifter. The 75-year-old woman had
been caught attempting to slip some needed medications into her
handbag. The store insists on filing charges against the woman.
Is there an applicable law? Yes. The woman obviously broke a law.
Is there an applicable departmental policy? Obviously, the
departmental policy would be to enforce the law, especially if
the complainant wants to press charges.

Does this resolve the dilemma? For some officers it does. Some
officers believe that the duty of the police is to enforce the
law, not to mediate it.

Others, however, would respond by saying that an ethical issue
exists aside from duty. These officers identify this situation as
a dilemma. Their solution may be to try to convince the store
owner to drop the charges. Others may even go so far as to offer
to pay for the items themselves. Is this their responsi-bility?
Obviously, no professional duty dictates such action, but some
believe that personal ethics require a more complete response to
the situation than merely acting as an agent of the law.

APPLYING ETHICAL FRAMEWORKS

After discussing the dilemmas, the instructor asks the officers
to apply ethical frameworks to the possible solutions. At this
point, the instructor lists, describes, and briefly discusses the
different ethical systems. Each participant should be able to
discuss a resolution of the submitted dilemmas by applying
various ethical systems.

At the same time, the instructor  stresses that ethical systems
should not be confused with moral decisions. Rather, they are
guidelines to which an individual can refer when making a moral
decision.

A discussion of ethical systems provides a procedural framework
but also demonstrates that there often is more than one "correct"
resolution to a dilemma and more than one way to arrive at the
same resolution. Likewise, a person may use the same ethical
system to resolve different moral dilemmas or use multiple
ethical systems to resolve a single dilemma.

Religious Ethics 

What is good conforms to a deity's will. Religious ethics borrows
moral concepts from religious teachings and draws on the
participants' various religious beliefs. Discussions lead
students to recognize that religious philosophies are ethical
systems based on absolute concepts of good, evil, right, and
wrong.

Natural Law

What is good is what conforms to nature. If what is natural is
good, then students easily can appreciate the constraints of a
natural law ethical system within the artificial constructs of
modern society. It becomes clear that natural law theory offers
only limited assistance when students compare peoples' most
basic, natural inclinations with their motivations in resolving
complex dilemmas.3

Ethical Formalism 

What is good is what is pure in motive. When discussing ethical
formalism, students are asked to resolve a specific dilemma by
selecting a resolution that is pure or unblemished in motive,
regardless of the consequences. Discussions within this framework
present almost absolute answers to ethical dilemmas and show that
some actions have little or no ethical support.

Utilitarianism 

What is good is what results in the greatest good for the
greatest number. Students who find the consequences of resolving
a dilemma more ethically significant than the motive behind the
decision-making process will resolve a dilemma with what they
perceive to be an acceptable consequence. Yet, in most instances,
predicting the consequences is virtually impossible. This results
in discussions that become simply a means to project the most
likely effects of choices.4

Ethics of Care 

What is good is that which meets the needs of those involved and
does not hurt relationships. Police agency mottoes often reflect
a philosophy based on the ethics of care, such as "To protect and
serve." The ethics of care is founded in the natural human
response to provide for the needs of children, the sick, and the
injured. Many police officers operate under the ethics of care
when they attempt to solve problems rather than rigidly enforce
the law.

CLOSING DISCUSSION

Discussions regarding ethical systems should show that some
decisions have little or no ethical rationale. Some rationales
can be described as egotistic, because they serve only the
individual's needs.

On the street, police officers are seldom forced to present
ethical rationales for their decisions. Some do not like the
experience, even in a classroom setting. Yet, others express
views suggesting that all police officers could benefit from such
training. Drawing on dilemmas and discussing various ethical
frameworks give officers a realistic view of work situations they
may face and supply them with the tools needed to resolve
dilemmas.

CONCLUSION

Clearly, an ethics course for criminal justice practitioners must
be relevant to their experiences to be effective. Hypothetical
situations have little place because every officer probably has
faced an ethical dilemma at some time. One way to ensure a sense
of relevance is to use officers' own dilemmas in guiding the
discussion, while the instructor provides the ethical framework
for analyzing these dilemmas.

Most of these law enforcement dilemmas fall into clear-cut
categories. Matters such as what to do  with an elderly
shoplifter, whether  to enforce an outstanding warrant for a poor
mother, or whether to report a minor fender bender during a shift
may not be the stuff of action-adventure movies, but they weigh
on many police officers nonetheless. The same structured analysis
can be used for all types of ethical dilemmas; the benefit of 
such an analysis is that it gives police officers the tools for
identifying and resolving their own dilemmas.

Applying this approach to ethics education strongly suggests to
officers that the shaping of an ethical philosophy does not
depend on recognizing and avoiding those dilemmas most often
sensationalized by the media and the public. Rather, an ethical
philosophy is shaped by the way an officer deals with the        
confusion, ambiguity, and compromise that insinuate themselves    
into the behavior and decisions confronting police officers every
day. Recognizing these common dilemmas, acknowledging the ethical 
systems, and resolving these dilemmas by using an ethical
philosophical framework can provide officers a working foundation
to mediate all dilemmas, large and small.

Endnotes

1 A. Swift, J. Houston, and R. Anderson, "Cops, Hacks and the
Greater Good," paper presented at the annual meeting of the
Academy of Criminal Justice Sciences, Kansas City, MO, 1993; F.
Schmalleger, Ethics in Criminal Justice: A Justice Professional
Reader (Bristol, IN: Wyndom Hall Press, 1990); S. Souryal, Ethics
in Criminal Justice: In Search of the Truth (Cincinnati, OH:
Anderson Publishing Co., 1992).
2 This article is a summary of a paper by the authors published
in the Journal of Criminal Justice Education 6 (Spring 1995):
1-20.
3 J. Pollack, Ethics in Crime and Justice: Dilemmas and
Decisions, 2d ed. (Belmont, CA: Wadsworth Publishing, 1994).
4 J. Gold, W. Braswell, and B.J. McCarthy, "Criminal Justice
Ethics: A Survey of Philosophical Theories," in Justice, Crime
and Ethics, ed. M. Braswell, B.R. McCarthy, and B.J. McCarthy
(Cincinnati, OH: Anderson Publishing Co., 1991).