
                          Statement of
                                
             The Honorable Dan Glickman, Secretary
            United States Department of Agriculture
                                                
                           Before the
                    Committee on Agriculture
             United States House of Representatives
                                
                       September 15, 1999
                                                
                                
Introduction

Mr. Chairman and Members of the Committee, thank you for allowing
me to appear before you today to discuss the Administration s views on
the state of the farm economy and President Clinton s call for emergency
assistance for farmers.

Agriculture is not sharing in the current prosperity enjoyed by most
other sectors of our economy. Prices are down for nearly all major crops.
Prices for some commodities have hit their lowest levels in more than two
decades and stock levels are building. The Department of Agriculture
(USDA) projects that the average 1999 crop corn price will be the lowest
since 1987, 26% under the average of 1993-1997. USDA expects soybean
prices to be the lowest since 1986, 26% under the 5 year average. Wheat,
and rice prices will be 31% under their 5 year averages, according to
USDA s latest estimates. USDA is prohibited from publishing projections of
cotton prices but cotton prices have fallen sharply as well. In addition,
USDA believes hog prices will be their lowest since 1972, 34% below the 5
year average. Cattle prices have recovered somewhat but USDA still
expects that for this year they will be 6% below the 5 year average.

Farmers and ranchers in some regions of the country are faced with
the seemingly improbable combination of low crop yields and low prices. In
Pennsylvania, for instance, corn yields are only 65% of normal due to the
worst drought on record in the Mid-Atlantic region. Many livestock
producers in the region were forced to reduce their herds due to a lack of
adequate water or feed.

Farmers in other regions were affected by natural disasters as well.
As we sit here today, the Southeast coast is being threatened by what
forecasters are calling one of the worst hurricanes of this century. Our
hopes and thoughts are for the safety of the people in those regions, and
we are following events carefully. Obviously, the effect of Hurricane Floyd
could well expand the need for emergency assistance for farmers and
ranchers.

As difficult as conditions are, the situation today would have been
worse if not for the work the Administration did last year with Congress to
enact nearly $6 billion in supplemental economic and disaster payments.
Government payments have been a crucial counterbalancing force to low prices,
increasing from $7.5 billion in 1997, to over $12 billion last year, to a
projected $16.6 billion this year. Our actions to date have only helped
farmers adapt to a terrible situation, they have not changed the underlying
causes of today s farm misery another year of large global production, weak
foreign economic growth and regional weather disasters.

Why is the Farm Economy in Crisis?

Why is the farm economy in crisis? Can you lay all the blame on the 1996 farm
bill? Not all of it. In large part, the crisis is being fueled by four
consecutive years of record global grain production and weak export demand
both of which are beyond the scope of the farm bill. USDA projects that
agricultural will be only $49 billion this fiscal year after reaching a record
high of nearly $60 billion in fiscal year 1996. Large global production, the
Asian and Russian economic crises, and the relative strength of the dollar
compared to the currencies of our competitors and customers, have all weakened
US exports.

The more appropriate question is: Is the farm bill doing what farm policy
should to help deal with the problem and help with the recovery? Clearly the
answer to that question is no.

The income support payments the farm bill provides -- the so-called AMTA, for
Agricultural Marketing Transition Action, payments -- are declining just at
the time when farmers need the help the most. These payments are fixed; they
cannot and do not respond to low prices the way counter-cyclical payments did
prior to 1996. In addition, the farm bill capped the price support loan rates,
so they could not respond to today slow market prices.

The law also ended or suspended many of the authorities previous Secretaries
of Agriculture had to manage just the kinds of problems the farm sector is now
experiencing. For example, I no longer have the authority USDA had in the past
to extend the term of commodity loans, meaning farmers have little choice but
to dump their grain into an already dropping market. There are no programs to
provide longer term storage, again, exacerbating the just-cited problem.

It is time for a change. While certain provisions of the farm bill have worked
and are working well, the safety net provisions are not adequate when prices
are low or disasters hit. In previous years, farm bills were counter-cyclical;
this farm bill is not. Congress has had to enact some form of ad hoc
assistance--emergency loans, livestock assistance, income support, or disaster
assistance--every year since the farm bill became law. Not only is ad hoc
assistance a poor substitute for a farm policy, it is recognition that the
underlying policy needs repair.
We should not lurch from one emergency bill to the next. It is not good for
the taxpayers and it is not good for agriculture. Short-term fixes turn out to
be more expensive than carefully planned long-term programs. We need a farm
policy that empowers farmers not only to survive, but to prosper.

Frankly speaking, farm policy has not kept up with the times. We tend to give
more support to larger producers and help producers of only a few crops. We
should do a better job of monitoring and helping farmers deal with
concentration and provide stronger enforcement of antitrust laws. But most
importantly, we need to help farmers change the way they deal with today s
market place; we should help farmers participate in direct marketing and
processing and help them get more of the consumer food dollar. Congress should
pass this year crop insurance reform to help farmers better-manage their
risks.

It is not too early for Congress to revisit the farm bill and enact broader
changes. I am prepared to work with Congress to craft a farm policy that makes
sense, provides the counter-cyclical income support missing from farm bill and
allows farmers to prosper in today s changing market place.

For this year, as Office of Management and Budget Director Lew stated in his
letter today on the fiscal year 2000 agricultural appropriations bill, the
Administration supports spending to address the current financial stress in
agriculture.

Not only should this year s bill provide additional income and disaster relief
for farmers, and it should point the way to strengthen the safety net for the
longer term. If it does not, chances are another emergency spending bill will
be needed next year too. Let me repeat that: That we are sitting here for the
second year in a row discussing major supplements to fix the inadequacies of
the 1996 farm bill signals the imperative for fixes to that bill itself, not
just another patch over its shortcomings. The conditions agriculture is
working through right now will take time for the sector to adjust, and there
are policy changes we can make to assist with that adjustment -- we can
implement them now so they are in place and farmers and ranchers can plan
accordingly, or we can come back and do another ad hoc bill next year. The
Administration strongly believes the former course is the wise -- for
agriculture as well as taxpayers.

I will now summarize the Administration s proposals for emergency farm relief:

Drought and Natural Disaster Relief

The Administration believes Congress should enact a continuation of the
single-year portion of last year s crop loss disaster assistance program,
covering 1999 crop losses so farmers would be compensated if their 1999 crop
losses exceed 35 % of historic yields. The payment formula should provide
greater benefits to farmers who bought insurance on eligible crops; those
required to purchase crop insurance as a condition of receiving crop loss
disaster assistance last year should be ineligible to receive a payment this
year if they failed to do so. Both to expedite delivery of the assistance
and to ensure that farmers are in fact compensated at this level, the program
should financed through the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) rather than
from a fixed appropriation. We are still refining our estimates of the
damages, but currently we put them in the range of $800 million to $1.2
billion.

A substantial portion of the payments, but not a majority, would go to the
drought-affected regions of the Mid-Atlantic and Northeast. In some States,
this is the driest growing season in history--or at least since such records
have been kept. The drought is severely diminishing yields or wiping out crops
for many farmers. Farmers and ranchers in other regions are suffering
weather-induced crop losses too: long-term drought continues to stress crops
in the interior regions of the Pacific Northwest and from the easternmost Corn
Belt into New England. The 1999 California citrus crop was affected earlier
this year by a late freeze in December. There is also a significant area of
northern North Dakota that was flooded this year preventing crops from being
planted.

Congress also should authorize emergency livestock assistance to help
producers who experience higher feed costs, reduced livestock production, or
livestock mortality losses in weather-related disasters. These are uninsurable
risks which can place extreme burdens on livestock producers. After Congress
suspended USDA s permanent authorities to provide emergency livestock
assistance, the Administration funded programs for two years using the
Disaster Reserve, which is now depleted. In 1998, Congress provided $270
million in ad hoc livestock assistance.

Emergency Farm Income Support

To be sure, there is an immediate need is to provide cash assistance to
mitigate low prices, falling incomes, and, in some areas, falling land values.
Congress should enact a new program to target assistance to farmers of 1999
crops suffering from low prices. The Administration believes the income
assistance component must address the shortcomings of the farm bill by
providing counter-cyclical assistance.

The centerpiece of our proposal is an income assistance program directed at
those with the greatest need -- farmers suffering from low prices on this year
s crops. The payments, and payment mechanism, ought to be based on that
fundamental, driving fact. The income assistance should compensate for this
today s low prices therefore they should be paid according to this year s
actual production of the major field crops, including oilseeds, not a formula
based on an artificial calculation done a decade ago.

Where national net farm income from a particular crop has fallen sharply below
the 5 year average, the payment rate would be calculated to make up a
percentage of the shortfall. We are prepared to work with the Congress to
determine an appropriate percentage. The program would be commodity-specific
in that it will pay producers based on falling prices and incomes from the
crops they actually plant. Payments would be capped and large farmers should
be excluded from receiving payments.

Whereas our income assistance proposal is targeted to those with the greatest
need the Senate plan, which doubles AMTA payments, makes no effort to target
payments. Moreover, and this is a key distinction, that plan will make
payments based on past production that may not have any bearing on actual
production this year which is our purpose for providing assistance for low
prices.

Last year, Congress allowed producers to receive 100 percent of their AMTA
payment at the beginning of the fiscal year. It is important that we continue
to provide this flexibility to producers; Congress should make this a
permanent change.

The Administration also proposes to make payments to small- and medium-sized
hog operations, similar to last year s SHOP I and II programs.

Farm Loans

The Administration also recommends funding for additional farm loans,
including emergency loans. Demand for USDA loan assistance continues to
increase. More and more farmers are becoming highly leveraged, with limited
equity and low incomes due to the depressed economic conditions. They are
turning to USDA for help. For these farmers, commercial credit sources are not
available; some are unable to obtain credit elsewhere even with an USDA
guarantee. Additionally, the recently increased loan limits for FSA guaranteed
loan programs is increasing the demand for guaranteed loan funding. All of
these factors will likely cause the demand for loan funds in FY00 to exceed
what is currently requested in the President s budget and included in the
House and Senate bills.

To help farmers cope with crop storage problems and improve their marketing
flexibility, funding should be reinstated for loans to finance construction of
on-farm storage facilities.

Commensurate with these projected increased loan levels, the Administration
supports additional funding for USDA s State Mediation Program, above the $2
million now in the Senate bill. USDA s mediation program is a very successful
and cost-effective alternative dispute resolution for farmers and their
lenders. Demands on the mediation program are at their peak during times of
economic crisis such as today. We should maximize use of this proven and
cost-effective program to bring lenders, producers and others to the same
table to discuss their problems.

The Administration also urges Congress to fund fully its request for $10
million for the 2501 program. The 2501 program is designed to assist
socially-disadvantaged farmers and ranchers to participate in USDA programs
and be successful in their operations by providing outreach and technical
assistance. Socially-disadvantaged farmers need special support and counseling
during bad economic times. 

Crop Insurance and NAP Reform

Reform of the Federal crop insurance program has been a top priority of this
Administration and Congressional agricultural leaders throughout this year s
legislative session. The Administration has proposed a number of measures to
improve crop insurance. The major changes supported by the Administration
include: raising the coverage floor for catastrophic risk protection (CAT)
coverage; making higher-level coverage more affordable by increasing premium
subsidies; covering multi-year disasters; speeding up the development of new
policies; insuring certain livestock losses; improving the Noninsured Disaster
Assistance Program (NAP) by increasing coverage and replacing the area trigger
with a Secretarial or Presidential disaster designation; and providing better
information and service to producers.

I applaud your efforts, Mr. Chairman for sponsoring a bill that includes many
of the proposals put forward by the Administration. However, the
Administration disagrees with some of the provisions in your bill, including
provisions changing the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation s Board of
Directors structure and the lack of flexibility in the new product development
and research. Your bill also fails to reform NAP as proposed by the
Administration by replacing the current area trigger so that NAP would become
available in counties declared eligible for emergency loans. Also, the NAP and
CAT payment levels should be raised from 50/55 yield/price coverage to 60/70
coverage. We believe these differences can and should be worked out to ensure
that this critical piece of legislation is signed into law this year.

Last year, USDA set-aside a portion of the emergency assistance funds to buy
down the crop insurance premiums for farmers who purchased higher levels of
coverage and that initiative was very successful -- more than 400,000 farmers
purchased new or upgraded policies. 

Conservation

When farmers suffer, their land can too, because distress in the farm economy
presents new pressure to abandon good stewardship practices. To relieve these
pressures, the Administration supports eliminating the acreage enrollment cap
for the Wetlands Reserve Program (WRP), increasing the annual enrollment cap
to 250,000 acres, expanding the acreage enrollment cap for the Conservation
Reserve Program (CRP) to 40 million acres, increasing funds for the
Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP), and providing the additional
conservation technical assistance funds necessary to implement the increases.
The WRP provides direct payments to farmers while advancing wetland protection
goals. Farmers often can realize both 100% of the agricultural value of the
land and generate further income by leasing wetland acreage to sporting
groups. Unfortunately, demand for WRP participation far exceeds funding
levels, and the program will likely soon hit a congressionally imposed acreage
cap soon if no action is taken The Administration also supports an increase in
the acreage enrollment limit for the CRP program from 36.4 million to 40
million acres. The increase would also re-establish the original 1985
enrollment goal of 40 million acres providing additional enrollment
opportunities for many land owners and operators with environmentally
sensitive lands to participate in the program who would otherwise be excluded.
If the cap is not increased, we will have to accept far fewer acres next year,
even though a large amount of acreage may be offered given current commodity
prices. USDA could end up rejecting up to 70 percent of all offers next year.

The EQIP was created in the 1996 farm bill with an annual mandatory spending
level of $200 million. EQIP is essential to ensuring that small producers get
the support they need to prevent agricultural runoff from polluting our nation
s water resources. Livestock producers, in particular, are being asked to
assume the increased costs and management at the very time that prices have
plummeted. EQIP can not only ease the burden, but was established in part for
the express purpose of helping producers comply with environmental
regulations. The Administration s FY00 budget proposed to increase EQIP by
$100 to $300 million over the current authorization of $200 million annually.
The current appropriations bill would cut this to $174 million and we believe
additional amounts are vitally important.

Trade

In addition to the other steps we are advocating, the Administration believes
expanding exports should be a critical element of the Federal government s
response to the farm crisis. Increasing our export expansion activities will
help bring markets into balance sooner, thus hastening the recovery of the
farm economy, therefore the Administration is renewing its request for
authority to roll forward unused EEP balances to future years or use some of
those funds for food aid or other export assistance activities.

In addition, the Administration supports restoring funding for the cotton
"Step 2" program. This program increases US cotton sales and keeps US textile
mills competitive with foreign mills. Funding for Step 2 was exhausted in
December 1998 far sooner than anticipated. Additional funding for Step 2 will
help revitalize the U.S. cotton industry which is facing the second lowest
export sales in two decades. Funding Step 2 would have the added effect of
reducing the likelihood of triggering additional cotton imports. 

Dairy

The 1996 farm bill terminates the dairy price support program at the end of
this calendar year, even though all of the remaining commodity programs
authorized under the 1996 farm bill. The Administration supports extending the
dairy price support program. Terminating the dairy price support program at
end of this year likely would be disruptive to the industry. The support
program has been in existence for half a century and is particularly important
in balancing the market and supporting the price of nonfat dry milk.

CCC Borrowing Authority and Program Delivery Issues

Delivery of an emergency program is dependent upon the availability of staff
resources to conduct signups, issue checks, provide technical assistance, and
enforce program rules and regulations. This requires that the Farm Service
Agency (FSA) and Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) be funded at a
level commensurate with these responsibilities.

The FSA needs additional funds beyond those included in the current
appropriations bill to implement this year s emergency aid. In addition,
funding is required to assure that the FSA s computer systems continue to
function. Historically, funds for FSA computer support have been provided
through the CCC, but in the 1996 farm bill, Congress capped the use of CCC
funds for this purpose and funds within the cap have now been exhausted. This
means that there are no funds to develop software, repair broken equipment, or
take other actions necessary to assure that these systems continue to run.
Additional funds are is required in FY 2000 for this purpose. This could be
achieved either by returning the cap on CCC expenditures for computer support
to its original level or appropriating additional funds through FSA.

For NRCS, basic levels of technical assistance to farmers have historically
been provided through appropriations, while the 1996 farm bill provides that
additional technical assistance required to support CRP and the WRP is
provided by CCC. To respond to the current emergency situation, the NRCS
requires additional funding to deliver the additional acres we propose be
authorized for the CRP and WRP.

Finally, additional CCC borrowing authority will be needed. We are dangerously
close to using up all current authority. Current projections are that CCC will
exhaust its borrowing authority early in the next fiscal year. It is
especially crucial that the final agricultural appropriations bill include the
Senate language providing an indefinite appropriation to reimburse CCC for its
net realized losses. This is consistent with the President s budget request.
The House language would provide only $14.65 billion for CCC and it is now
evident that the House estimate of net realized losses is insufficient,
providing only enough funding for about 2 '/2 months in the new fiscal year.

Conclusion

Mr. Chairman, I believe the steps I have outlined today offer a credible,
appropriate response to the farm crisis. That concludes my statement. I look
forward to answering your questions.

Thank you.
